---
layout: page
title: Testing Emails
---

<div id="toc">
# "Configuring ActionMailer":#config
# "Testing email subject lines":#subject
# "Testing email content":#content
</div>

h3(#config).  Configuring ActionMailer

First setup Rails to send email. For example, if you are using GMail you can setup your SMTP settings like this:

<pre>
ActionMailer::Base.smtp_settings = {
  :address => "smtp.gmail.com",
  :port => "587",
  :domain => "gmail.com",
  :authentication => :plain,
  :user_name => "your-email@gmail.com",
  :password => "your-pass"
}
</pre>


h3(#subject).  Testing email subject lines

In your @RAILS_ROOT/experiments/@ folder create an experiment file. For example:

<pre>
ab_test "Invite subject" do
  description "Optimize invite subject line"
  alternatives "Join now!", "You're invited to an exclusive event."
  metrics :open
end
</pre>

In your @RAILS_ROOT/experiments/metrics/@ folder create a metric file for the metric you are testing. For example:

<pre>
metric "Open (Activation)" do
  description "Measures how many recipients opened an email."
end
</pre>

Create an ActionMailer class, for example:

<pre>
class UserMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  def invite_email(user)
    use_vanity_mailer user
    mail :to => user.email, :subject =>ab_test(:invite_subject)
  end
end
</pre>

We set the identity of the "user" in the @use_vanity_mailer@ method. This can take a string or an object that responds to id. If it's nil then it will set it as a random number. Setting the appropriate context is important to have each user consistently get the same alternative in our experiment.

Now we need to include a tracking image in the email content.  We pass in the vanity identity which we set when we called @use_vanity_mailer(user)@ and the metric we are tracking.

<pre>
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html>
    <head>
      <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type">
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Hey Joseph</h1>
      <p>
        <%= vanity_tracking_image(Vanity.context.vanity_identity, :open, :host => "127.0.0.1:3000") %>
      </p>
    </body>
  </html>
</pre>

Last, we have to include the @TrackingImage@ module into our @VanityController@.  This is the same place that you can include the @Dashboard@.

@Vanity::Rails::TrackingImage@ will add a image method that will render a blank image.

<pre>
class VanityController < ApplicationController
  include Vanity::Rails::Dashboard
  include Vanity::Rails::TrackingImage
end
</pre>


h3(#subject).  Testing email content

In your @RAILS_ROOT/experiments/@ folder create a new experiment file:

<pre>
ab_test "Invite text" do
  description "Optimize invite text"
  alternatives "A friend of yours invited you to use Vanity", "Vanity is the latest and greatest in a/b testing technology"
  metrics :click
end
</pre>

In your @RAILS_ROOT/experiments/metrics/@ folder create a metric file for the metric you are testing:

<pre>
metric "Click (Acquisition)" do
  description "Measures clickthough on email."
end
</pre>

A/B test your email content:

<pre>
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html>
    <head>
      <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type">
    </head>
    <body>
      <h1>Hi!</h1>
      <p>
        <%= link_to ab_test(:invite_text), vanity_track_url_for(Vanity.context.vanity_identity, :click, :controller => "home", :action => "index", :host => "127.0.0.1:3000") %>
      </p>
    </body>
  </html>
</pre>

Here we use the text from the "invite_text" experiment and then use the @vanity_track_url_for@ helper to add the identity and the metric to track into the url so that Vanity can track the click-throughs.
